



Network Working Group                                        E. Rescorla
Internet-Draft                                                          
Updates: rfc8718 (if approved)                                 R. Barnes
Intended status: Best Current Practice                                  
Expires: 3 September 2026                                    D. Schinazi
                                                                        
                                                                T. Pauly
                                                            2 March 2026


               Security Requirements for the IETF Network
                draft-rescorla-anonymous-network-latest

Abstract

   This document requires the network at the IETF plenary meeting to
   protect the security and privacy of its users.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   The latest revision of this draft can be found at
   https://ekr.github.io/draft-rescorla-anonymous-network/draft-
   rescorla-anonymous-network.html.  Status information for this
   document may be found at https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-
   rescorla-anonymous-network/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/ekr/draft-rescorla-anonymous-network.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 3 September 2026.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Conventions and Definitions
   2.  Requirements
   3.  Security Considerations
   4.  IANA Considerations
   5.  References
     5.1.  Normative References
     5.2.  Informative References
   Acknowledgments
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   IETF meeting participants depend heavily on Internet access during
   the IETF plenary meeting.  The venue selection process defined in
   [RFC8718] makes a functional network a mandatory criterion:

      It MUST be possible to provision Internet Access to the Facility
      and IETF Hotels that allows those attending in person to utilize
      the Internet for all their IETF, business, and day-to-day needs;
      in addition, there must be sufficient bandwidth and access for
      remote attendees.  Provisions include, but are not limited to,
      native and unmodified IPv4 and IPv6 connectivity, and global
      reachability; there may be no additional limitation that would
      materially impact their Internet use.  To ensure availability, it
      MUST be possible to provision redundant paths to the Internet.

   A critical, but implicit requirement in this paragraph is that IETF
   participants need to be secure in their use of the Internet.  It will
   clearly have a material impact on participants' Internet use if they
   cannot use the security technologies they require, or if accessing
   the IETF network requires them to reduce their security or privacy
   posture (e.g., by revealing sensitive information).

   As expressed in [RFC7258], the IETF considers pervasive monitoring an
   attack, The IETF has a long history of developing protocols to
   protect the confidentiality and authenticity of Internet
   communications, such as IPsec, DNSSEC, TLS, and SSH.  More recently,
   there has been a focus on protecting the identities of the endpoints
   to communication, e.g., MASQUE, OHAI, and ECH.  The security
   properties of the IETF network should be aligned with these
   principles.

   For example:

   *  IETF attendees often employ mechanisms such as IPsec, HTTPS,
      Oblivious HTTP, and TLS ECH to protect the security and privacy of
      their business and day-to-day Internet usage.  If these security
      features cannot be used, attendees will not be able to use the
      Internet as they need to.

   *  IETF attendees typically expect that the IETF network will not
      collect more information about their usage of it than is
      technically necessary to operate the network.  If IETF users need
      to authenticate in a way that their Internet traffic can be
      attributed to them by local or upstream network operators, this
      expectation would be violated, and attendees might not be willing
      or able to use the Internet under such circumstances.

   This document updates the requirements of [RFC8718] to make these
   security requirements explicit.

1.1.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

2.  Requirements

   This document extends the mandatory criteria as follows:

      The IETF network MUST be compatible with widely-used Internet
      security technologies, and MUST NOT interfere with their usage.
      These properties MUST also hold for upstream networks.  In other
      words, in addition to global reachability at the IP layer, the
      network must provide secure global reachability, in the sense of
      being able to securely connect to any other endpoint on the
      Internet using any widely-used security protocol.

   This text is intended to ensure that IETF participants can continue
   to get the level of security that they require when they use the IETF
   network.

      The IETF network MUST NOT collect information about IETF
      participants' Internet usage beyond what is technically required
      to operate the network.  If user-linked information needs to be
      collected, then it MUST NOT be disseminated beyond the immediate
      IETF network operational team, and MUST be deleted at the end of
      an IETF meeting.

      The IETF network MUST be accessible by any IETF participant
      without providing authentication information that is tied to their
      identity.  If user-specific authentication is required, it MUST be
      possible for users to anonymously obtain an arbitrary number of
      credentials which are not linkable to their identity.  The network
      SHOULD provide unauthenticated access or access via a shared
      credential if practicable.

   This text is intended to maximize user privacy and forbid any
   authentication mechanisms which would make it possible to attribute
   traffic to a specific identifiable user.

3.  Security Considerations

   The requirement in this document enhances user security and privacy
   by reducing a network observer's ability to track user behavior.  The
   requirement may make it more difficult to manage abusive behavior by
   network users, however, the IETF network currently routinely operates
   in a mode without any user-level authentication, so this requirement
   does not create a security regression.

4.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA actions.

5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8174>.

   [RFC8718]  Lear, E., Ed., "IETF Plenary Meeting Venue Selection
              Process", BCP 226, RFC 8718, DOI 10.17487/RFC8718,
              February 2020, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8718>.

5.2.  Informative References

   [RFC7258]  Farrell, S. and H. Tschofenig, "Pervasive Monitoring Is an
              Attack", BCP 188, RFC 7258, DOI 10.17487/RFC7258, May
              2014, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc7258>.

Acknowledgments

   TODO acknowledge.

Authors' Addresses

   Eric Rescorla
   Email: ekr@rtfm.com


   Richard Barnes
   Email: rlb@ipv.sx


   David Schinazi
   Email: dschinazi.ietf@gmail.com


   Tommy Pauly
   Email: tpauly.ietf@gmail.com
